# CSCS-530-Assignment3

Langton's ant model is implemented with Python. Several video files are generated and uploaded to the repository (therefore I am not going to paste the snapshots here).

Three different kinds of boundary conditions are considered here: open, wrapped and fixed.

For a world with fixed boundaries, ants with the default rule (RL) would easily get stuck at the corners, which makes it less interesting to explore. (Of course, some more complex rules should be able to prevent this, it would be interesting to explore how those would work with fixed boundaries.) Open world also seems to be less interesting. Basically, any patterns in an open world should also be observed in closed worlds that are large enough. Most of the instances I have run (including discarded ones) are set in closed worlds with periodic boundaries.

An interesting thing would be that the socalled "highway" structures can be widely observed. (Please refer to wrapped.mp4, double.mp4, double2.mp4 and RLRL.mp4.) The structure can either be generated by a single ant or two ants collectively (working under different rules). In a world with periodic boundary, the self-generating structure will end up crashing into itself, and thereby generating more complicated behaviors. For some of the cases, another "highway" will be eventually generated.

The size of the world has a great effect here. It is obvious that in a very small world, the self-genreating structure would soon occupy most of the patches, and start interacting with itself endlessly. Then we won't be able to observe the generation of any new "highways", and it would be hardly possible to extract any information without appropriate quantitative analysis. However, small increments and small decrements in the size do not produce observable differences, at least for the most simple RL case. It seems to me that there might be some critical values, where the behavior of the system highly depends on the size.

Another interesting thing is that a single-ant model under the rule of RLRL seems to behave very similarly to the original RL model. (Please refer to wrapped.mp4 and RLRL.mp4.) There must be some structural resemblence in their dynamics, but I am wondering how that could be characterized.
